### Ozone Recovery

NASA scientists predict that the ozone hole will be smaller than 8 million square miles by 2040, marking the end of the era of big ozone holes. The ozone hole, formed by ozone-depleting chemicals in the atmosphere, has remained larger than 8 million square miles since the early 1990s. 

The size of the ozone hole varies due to temperature and atmospheric levels of ozone-depleting chemicals. NASA's AURA satellite was used to determine the annual variation in these chemicals' levels. With this new information, scientists can confidently say that the ozone hole will be consistently smaller than 8 million square miles by 2040. They plan to continue using satellites to monitor the ozone hole's recovery and hope to see its full recovery before the end of the century.

#### Abstract Summary

The study uses 9 years of Aura Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) nitrous oxide (N2O) measurements and a compact correlation to infer the interannual variability of inorganic chlorine in the Antarctic lower stratospheric vortex. Inorganic chlorine (Cly) is the sum of the destruction products of long-lived chlorine-containing source gases. The expected annual Cly change due to the Montreal Protocol is -20 ppt/yr, but the MLS-inferred Cly varies year-to-year from -200 to +150 ppt. Attributing Antarctic ozone recovery to a statistically significant chlorine trend requires 10 years of chlorine decline. The study also examines the relationship between equivalent effective stratospheric chlorine (EESC) and ozone hole area. Temperature variations are a primary contributor to area variability, but a clear linear relationship is found between EESC and area during years when Antarctic collar temperatures are 1σ or more below the mean. The study predicts ozone hole areas greater than 20 million km2 will occur during very cold years until 2040, with all ozone hole areas likely to be below that size due to reduced EESC levels.

<b>Research:</b> [Inorganic chlorine variability in the Antarctic vortex and implications for ozone recovery.](/Geophysical%20Sub-Module/GpSM-01%20:%20Atmospheres/Ozone%20Recovery/JGR2014JD022295.pdf)  S. E. Strahan, A. R. Douglass, P. A. Newman, & S. D. Steenrod. (2014, November 26). JGR Atmospheres. AGU Publications. Retrieved December 28, 2023, from https://doi.org/10.1002/2014JD022295
